OK, this note is some notes on the book, How to Lie with Statistics, by Darrell Huff. The introduction just covers some classic selection bias. Where a poll of readers was on... the last of one magazine, have they heard of the metric system? Only 33% of them had. And another magazine found that 98% had. And the way that had happened is... one of them was interviews on the street. You know, realistically, outside of an ASDA or something. Whereas the other one was a coupon that readers had to mail in, so it was very much self-selection. And there's a nice anecdote. That I want to include somewhere. About in a group meeting. Will was describing distance ladders in Cosmology. And he held up a fruit. To kind of demonstrate that it's at this distance and you know how big it is. So based on its distance to you, that's how you work out how big the orange is. And then someone pointed out that he wasn't holding an orange, he was holding a clementine. Which I think is, you know, that's like the perfect analogy for... how you could get the distance ladder wrong. So I need to write that down somewhere.

--- continued 2026-04-24_09-00 ---
COUGH COUGH Cool, so the first chapter is all about sampling bias. And all sorts of selection effects, which is really classic. Um. The anecdote I thought was quite interesting because I've heard of it was to do with Kinsey from the Kinsey Scale. Um. And particularly. . . . A lot of his work is, you know, about sexual behaviour. At a time where that was not commonly discussed. So, he's . . . You know, far and away getting responses from people who are quite a bit more deviant than the average population. So, that's quite interesting. . . And also, this book is clearly slightly old and written at a time where ... public polling. Wouldn't have been done over the internet. It potentially could be done over telephones, and they mention that ... seemed like Republicans would win. Because more Republicans owned phones. This was done before the internet, so a lot of this is talking about being in public. And so, you know, if there were three men walking past, and one of them basically looks like an ASBO. And one of them looks like a Wall Street guy who's walking really fast. And then one of them looks like a regular guy. You know, you're going to speak to the regular guy. And so, you know, it lists basically many, many ways of getting selection biases in increasingly invisible ways. And we kind of ... we all knew that. A really interesting example was in the middle of World War II, interviewing a bunch of African Americans about if they think they'd be treated better by the Nazis or by the USA. Or, you know, if they'd be treated better if Germany won the war. And some of them were interviewed by fellow African Americans, and some of them were interviewed by white folk. And the percentage answers are very different. And so probably the simplest solution there is that people are giving pleasing answers, right? So in the 1940s, a black guy is not going to say to his white interviewer, man, I get treated so terribly here, it probably wouldn't be any different with the Nazis, right? That's a pretty bold statement. And also sorts of things about like, you know, really trashy magazines have these huge sales numbers. But according to the polls, they're not that popular because people don't want to admit they read The Sun, right? So they say, oh, you know, we read something else. Again, in the age of, well, we're in an age with a lot less shame now, I guess. And also polls are done on the Internet a bit more anonymously. So some of that has gone, although I still find, for example, on my letterboxed, I'm trying to give the most honest answer I can. But I do worry that I sometimes overrate classy films and underrate trashy films.
